[Music]
if you're going to get into this bespoke
filmmaking business if you are going to
get into this live streaming keeping it
real q a type business you have to be
willing to recognize
a good question
when it comes from a bad person
you have to be willing to recognize
a good question
when it is posed to you
in bad terms shall we say when it is
poorly phrased poorly enunciated you
need to be able to
respond to
a question
that's posed to you with bad motivations
as if it were posed with good
motivations or find within it the best
possible motivation
for you
to respond to
so i got a question
i'm going to paraphrase this question i
am not going to quote this i'm not going
to read you
word for word this question but i got a
question demanding to know
how it is why it is
i feel entitled
to the love
of beautiful women
why it is i feel entitled to the love of
women plural apparently far more
attractive than myself including the one
woman singular that all of you have seen
on my instagram melissa who's sitting
off camera right here right now you know
how is it why is it i feel in this sense
entitled you know what
it's a good question
and it comes from a bad person with bad
intentions and bad motivations and it
was poorly phrased too
and i think this person is
frankly
jealous
that he cannot be with melissa instead
of myself i think he might be jealous of
a great many of the women in my life
past present and future
but melissa in particular i think
there's a little bit of jealousy i think
there's a little bit of envy i think
there's also a lot of
forcible misinterpretation
of things i have said on my youtube
channel in the past in order to
in order to make me seem unreasonable in
giving the advice i've given and
offering the reflections i've i've
offered but nevertheless okay
keep it all the way real with you guys
and i always like to start off at the
deepest end
of the swimming pool on these issues all
right
nobody
is entitled
to anybody's love
and this is one of the really
distinctive features of love
that sets it apart from any other kind
of emotion and any other kind of
relationship between two human beings
you can say
i am entitled to your respect you can
say
i am entitled to be
treated with a certain level of dignity
you can say i'm entitled to your time in
all kinds of different relationships and
you may have to fight for that you know
you might be talking to someone who's a
surgeon and they say hey look
you know i i've performed heart surgery
50 times this year so you've got to
respond i'm entitled to your respect you
may be talking to your professors and
they may not want to deal with you and
you have to say look
i paid you 10 000
and this is your contract and these are
your office hours and this is who i am
i'm entitled to your time i'm entitled
to your patience
there are entitlements for pretty much
every other relationship between human
beings except
love you can
never
be entitled to someone else's love not
in the particular not in general not one
person's love not a hundred people if
not a thousand people never
okay
love is never earned
and it's something you never have a
title to that's the meaning of being
entitled it's always
undeserved
it's always something above and beyond
anything you could ever earn you could
ever deserve that's love
[Music]
melissa's finding this quite moving it's
interesting
what you're thinking about it all right
and this has this has a positive and
negative so this this is a blade that
cuts both ways
okay
you're not entitled to your parent's
love
no you're not
you're entitled to respect prepare your
delta dignity you're entitled to a
certain level of support which is
actually disputed in different countries
legally how much your parents have to do
for you if they hate you it's quite
different from what kind of you can look
into it it's an interesting area of the
law people sometimes sue their parents
and parents sometimes sue their children
typical scenario you have a father who's
very heterosexual cares about sports and
military service he has a son who is gay
and interested in the liberal arts let's
say let's
happen to one of my brothers i have one
of my many brothers as gay he's a half
brother
he was adopted
he was raised by apparently a macho
architect
who hated him all his life could never
get along with him
the guy was an architect he wasn't an
army generalist he wasn't a football
hero still he was still in the arts when
you think about it might be all together
but there are a lot of gay people
working in architecture let's be honest
here folks interior design and so on but
nevertheless this gay half brother of
mine he grew up with his father was some
kind of macho
architect and you know
they just could not make that father-son
relationship work
man that's
unusual sorry getting getting a uh
getting a troll writing in chinese or a
spam message i guess i'm not sure what
they're going to try to sell i know i'm
sorry
nice nice distraction a nice distraction
to have um
look there's no way anyone is ever
entitled to anyone's love and if you
know enough people if you have enough
experience you'll actually see people in
the reverse situation
there are lesbian couples
who give birth to and raise a
heterosexual child and find themselves
estranged from their child there are gay
men i have known this there are gay men
who one way or another haven't raised a
child despite being gay men and they
feel like they can't relate to their
child and there are parents who are
conservative and right-wing and their
kids become left-wing and their parents
who are left-wing and their kids being
served
oh and let's just try that one example
that's easy for all of you to relate to
you could be a parent who is vegan and
your kid eats meat and makes excuses for
it you can be a parent who's a devote
hindu and your kid becomes a muslim
there are all these combinations and
permutations even the love that exists
between a parent and a child is
something you can never be entitled to
it's something you can never demand and
it's something you could never even earn
that's the greatest strategy of all
there are so many people who spend years
their lives or spend their whole lives
trying to earn their parents approval
trying to earn their parents live if
only i do this then my father will like
me then my father will approve me and
guess what
he's never going to love you he's never
going to approve you you know why
you are not the kind of guy he would
have met up with and made friends with
at a bar you just happen to be his
biological offspring he doesn't like you
like you know for men for millions of us
we're just fundamentally incompatible
with our parents where our parents will
forever be
less than our friends they will be more
like an enemy than a friend our whole
lives long they will never love us maybe
we can have a business relationship with
them maybe they can be our colleagues
maybe they can just barely tolerate us
maybe not even that
right
you're never entitled to someone else's
love not even if they marry you
right so we all we all know this
scenario and oh come on if you're 17
you know what i'm you know what i'm
talking about right
you can take the vows you can write it
down on a piece of paper
but then then what happens
oh
now i see that you're a gambling addict
this isn't the man i fell in love with
this isn't who i thought you really were
maybe he mentioned it once when you were
dating and you ignored it you thought oh
he mentioned oh you know back when he
was a teenager he used to do a lot of
gambling you know okay well that's in
the past it's no big deal
and then you've been married for five
years and you find out he has a gambling
addiction and when he said he was going
away on the weekends on a business trip
that wasn't a business trip
he was going to las vegas or oh oh
oh
oh i guess i guess you don't love him i
guess you found out who he really is all
right and guess what people it's not
always something as obvious as being a
gambling addict or a drug addict right
you could find out the smallest thing
imaginable you could find out some fetal
flaw about this person but it runs from
the surface right down to the deepest
crags of their soul and then you find
you don't love them you despise them
you loved who they thought
pardon me you loved who you thought they
were
or you loved who they pretended to be
who they presented themselves to be and
now you find out in some facet in some
flaw who they really are and guess what
it doesn't matter if you own a contract
it doesn't matter if you took a vault a
vow in the church if you put your hand
on a stack of bibles doesn't matter what
the rituals doesn't matter if you got a
gold ring doesn't matter if you have a
literal rope and chain you have a you
have a chain going to a ball and chain
you know it doesn't matter if you have a
tattoo saying you will love suzette
forever there is no
way you can make a commitment
to love there is no way you can commit
to love someone and there's no way they
could ever commit to you
that's not love
that's duty
duty is real obligation is real
and men will fight and die
for their duty and men will
men will remain dutiful husbands
especially in a culture that rewards
that their whole life long but they
won't love that [ __ ]
there are men who are dutiful to someone
there are women who are dutiful to their
husband they they do their duty with
just as much commitment as a soldier
going into bell they don't love him
you think this [ __ ] is rare
okay love
is precisely what you can never put in a
contract it's what you can never promise
doesn't matter if you call it a promise
ring doesn't matter if you call it a
promised tattoo right
love
is what can never be earned
it can never be deserved it's what you
can never be
entitled to
okay
welcome guys if you have a minute hit
the thumbs up hit the thumbs up this is
a thursday night for some of you it's
very very late at night more people hit
the thumbs up
or people could join this slightly
surreal conversation i was going to
answer just two questions
one from email one from a supporter on
patreon
um
obviously you could expand the range of
questions right now it is a q a video if
someone asks something interesting i'm
happy to digress and regress shall we
say oh so someone's coming in from new
zealand
alexa what's the time in auckland
alexa volume 10.
i'll have to ask again alexa what's the
time in auckland
oh great
well at least it made melissa laugh okay
it's great thanks for joining us if
everyone in the new zealand time zone
show with everyone in new zealand and
australia it's a terrible time to uh
alexa volume 10.
[Laughter]
okay alexa tell me a joke
[Music]
if you don't have any friends guys you
can buy yourself a robot oh right i was
sorry so here i am drinking from a
bottle
oh
but this is september of 2020 oh ho ho
who drinks from a bottle i do oh ho ho
look when i oh ho ho
yes plastic bottle
salt
solid steel mug with my own my own logo
on it there you go the abalasiel season
two logo
um
all right so look i i understand you
know i am not answering this question in
the spirit in which it is it is
intended i've decided to
address the more profound issue raised
by but obviously the person asking this
they were asking a way to
jar me or jill me or insult me
they think about this the way frankly an
incel thinks about it so insult them is
a subculture
in cells look at relations between the
sexes as something earned something
bartered something you're entitled to
they look at relationships and love and
marriage as something that a man is
entitled to because of his job because
of his social status because of some
morally redeeming qualities or virtues
and then they complain
that they are not getting the love or
the relationship or the type of partner
they feel they deserve on the basis of
these criteria so that's thinking in
terms of entitlement being a title being
entitled to love
um
and what i'm saying here is to start off
with a radical critique of that premise
going down to its most profound roots
and say no this is a very fundamental
misunderstanding of love
whatever love is
love is not respect
love is not duty love is something that
can never be earned and i do not think
in terms of being entitled to
anyone's love
ever
all right
now
the purpose of this barbed question
is to insinuate
that i am someone so ugly
that i should not feel entitled to
the love of a beautiful man i should not
feel the love of someone as beautiful as
melissa or the frankly the numerous
other beautiful women who throw
themselves at me past present and future
because it's still going on people
um
i do i do still get women interested in
me to this day
a lot of them are objectively
very good looking
so
i think the part that would probably
surprise you in the audience most
is that the vast majority of the women
who are interested in me shall we say
romantically
they've never watched my youtube channel
they've never seen me on the internet
they just respond to me
in real life face to face or they get
touched me and started talking to me
that it's kind of surprising for me too
so yes there are some women who see
these videos you hear me talking about
philosophy and politics and that's why
they want me because that intellectual
side
but let's say in the last 20 years
i guess the big surprise for me is that
there are more women after me
just on the basis of
like immediate direct impressions you
know
um
okay
so
this question or series of questions
i've received about this
think about how twisted the implications
are like are you actually alleging
that ugly people
are entitled to love and be loved by
other ugly people that beautiful people
are entitled to love or be loved by
other beautiful like there's a whole
series of implicitly assumed
entitlements and exclusions
that really fundamentally do not make
sense
and the most fundamental misconception
is this and this is what's common to the
right-wing incels
the right-wing mgtow people
the right-wing red wing
right-wing red pill people right and
also
a lot of radical feminists
so something feminists have in common
whether they're left-wing feminist not
with right wing in cells etc
that is that you are thinking
about love in terms of justice and
injustice
you are presuming
that for a beautiful woman to fall in
love with an ugly man
would be an injustice
and you're wrong
you are presuming that for a handsome
man to fall in love with an ugly woman
would be an injustice
and you're wrong
you're bringing a set of categories that
fundamentally have to do with
entitlement and that fundamentally have
to do with resentment
you're bringing a set of irrelevant
categories to the subject of love and
you are imposing it onto that subject
and you're forcing it to fit
and if it won't fit
you throw tantrums because then you feel
that the world is an unjust place that
doesn't make sense
and the problem isn't with the world the
problem is with you
the problem is with your categories with
your analysis
you're taking a world that makes
perfectly good sense and you're turning
it into nonsense you're taking a world
that in this respect is actually
perfectly just
because it's neither just nor unjust
and you're turning it into a caricature
of the most evil injustice because
you're taking a radically irrelevant set
of moral criteria and forcing them to
fit on that world
oh you thought this was going to be
shallow you thought what you thought
when i talk about penis size it's not
shallow guys okay it's all deep around
here
okay so really brief but meaningful
comment from from wildstyle
um
wildstyle says quote
love is blind
close quote
no it's not
no it's not um
i was telling an anecdote to melissa
this morning how
i could tell this antidote from several
different angles for several different
reasons
uh this was back when i was working at
starbucks so i was a kid working at
starbucks it was already tall women
thought i was handsome
um
and this woman comes in and you know
what is with people people have a
certain level of esp for sexuality like
you can tell well if you're experienced
you can tell if someone's gay you can
tell if someone has a crush and you can
tell they're two people you can tell one
of them has a question the other
but this
tall striking woman who's a little bit
older than me comes into
uh starbucks and everyone can tell right
away that she has some history with me
and she gets all nervous and flustered
and she starts smoking cigarettes like
to deal with her nerves like in a
nervous way and you know she just i'm
just working at starbucks she has this
interaction with me like across the
counter and it was funny because i mean
i hadn't really interacted with the
other male guys at the starbucks in this
in this way before but they had seen me
flirting well okay
they had seen female customers trying to
flirt with me and trying to get me they
had seen women trying to get at me and i
wasn't aware that they were jealous i
didn't feel like we were in a we were in
a competition
but um
somebody else on the staff i i don't
know if it was a girl or a guy
like they went inside when they like
brought her drink to her or something
they asked like oh you know are you are
you friends with this guy like you know
you guys know each other and i forget if
she just she afraid if she said that i
was her
ex-boyfriend
but she said something to that effect
which wasn't true there had been some
connection between us you know she said
so yeah yeah like i know she said she
had a history with me or she said
something like that and you could just
see the way she was jane smoking stuff
and all the guys so as soon as she goes
out the door and somehow this is spread
through telephone or whatever
you know
all the guys on staff me through all
these guys here they start hooting and
hollering at me like oh man we know you
got you know we know you got with all
these good-looking women but you know
god damn man like they start giving me
all these like compliments that are
really you know jealous and they start
making all these lewd comments too like
these guys had a deep vocabulary about
how hot this woman is about to try this
one
and to me like it's just it's so alien
for one thing the jealousy is alien the
competition is the alien like what do
you what do you think and the thing is
you could see in those moments why i've
i'm not interested in this one i've
never been interested in this one it's
true we had some kind of connection
she smoked cigarettes
like she's a chainsaw
you could also tell something about her
ethical character and her and her
nervousness or something you know
you say love is blind no it's not
but if you calibrate these things like
do you want to be with someone who's
you know
better looking
but who's a chain smoker
like
you know would you rather be with
someone who's less good-looking but has
never smoked a cigarette in their life
this is this is the reality of the world
we live in how attractive someone is is
just one factor it's not that love is
blind it's not and you know
you you could be with someone
so hideously ugly that it's really a
problem for you and you could be with
someone who you find so gorgeous and so
attractive that you rationalize it and
talk yourself into accepting them even
though they smoke cigarettes or there's
something else you really just like you
think well
this guy is gorgeous maybe i can make it
work maybe i can help him quit smoking
right
you know no the point isn't that love is
blind
the point is that your appearance is
just one factor you know among among
many which again in cells can't deal
with now i mean likewise i noticed this
specific type of jealousy what this um
what this question
is is on about
like um
why didn't you apply this to
intelligence
rather than appearance right
have i ever had one person right into me
saying that melissa is too smart to be
with
no serious question
is anyone has anyone questioned this
relationship in terms of intelligence
like do you think it doesn't matter
you know like what do you what do you
talk about when you wake up next to this
person in the morning you think that
doesn't matter
like even the shallowest people i've
ever known it matters to all of them it
matters to all them so much even if they
even if they have a fantasy
that they can just fall in love with
people or have romantic relations or
have sex with people where appearance
won't matter or something right
you kind of like can't sorry
they have a fantasy that intelligence
will matter they can just pursue someone
because they're attractive or beautiful
inevitably you have to confess yourself
know what really matters to me how
intelligent this person is you know say
of course it matters of course not so no
i would never say that
that love is blind
right
but of course what i say again and again
and again is
that
you know appearances do not matter
nearly as much as all these other
considerations tangible and
and intangible
so and we have people in the audience
saying she is smart right most of you
guys can
judge for yourself and so there's enough
there are enough youtube videos and you
can judge what kind of person she is
intellectually morally another you can
you can judge by all means come and
judge my point is
isn't it funny that someone going after
me this way someone says
why would you try to suggest that my
girlfriend is too beautiful to be with
me that i don't deserve her that i'm not
entitled to her right
why wouldn't it be some other
characteristic like why would it be an
intellectual characteristic an ethical
characteristic an emotional
characteristic
right you weren't seeing she's too kind
you know
melissa really laughed at that
you don't say she's too kind i'm not
entitled to her because she's too kind
you're not saying she's too smart you're
not saying she's too
you know i'm sorry there are a lot of
redeeming qualities you know someone
could have right
so
yeah this is obviously a case where the
question you know tells us um tells us a
great deal about the question and
obviously for me
the most profound and also the most
pragmatic part of this discussion is try
to get past the concept of entitlement
so bam sword is still you're still
you're butting waterproof yeah sorry
so a lot of love for melissa in here
brandon williams says melissa is on the
level yeah he's looking for and women
yeah no any any lesbians or bisexual
women trying to steal melissa from yeah
i don't think that's happened yet
that i know of
we've had we've had guys i mean who can
blame them
[Music]
right so brendon williams also says in
in he's sharing my critique of both the
feminists and the in cells and mgtow
people he says quote purely
transactional mindset that's right and i
think that um
i think that's what's terrifying to them
i think exactly what they're trying to
do is on the one hand take human
sexuality and a base it
a base it to the level of being nothing
a tran nothing but a transaction
and then at the same time they're trying
to kind of glorify it
and moralize about it these are two
completely contradictory self-defeating
impulses obviously um
so that they can grandstand and talk
about entitlements and talk about
justice and injustice and talk about the
way that the world ought to be as
opposed to talking about the way that
the world is okay and the way that the
world is is this all right
people discover
that they have the capability to love
someone else all right
and they may discover it in a completely
unexpected way you know they discover
that they can
love someone and then they have to think
about whether or not they should
okay and it's not something you can ever
earn
it's not something you can ever deserve
it's not something you can ever be
entitled to and conversely
it's never something you can be
dis-entitled to it's never something you
can lack
you know the credentials for it's never
something that someone else can tell you
you don't
deserve now this guy thinks he's a
left-wing politically correct feminist
the guy who's criticizing me oh yeah so
you think i'm ugly huh
i get a lot of female attention
still to this day still at 42 years old
still busy writing my book okay i
i get a lot of female attention when i'm
alone i'm real
the vast majority of the time i'm
holding melissa's hand i get the
judgment and i get attention with
melissa back when i was married to my
ex-wife women came at me when i was
holding her hand and introducing to
people or to people i i i remember me
and myself used to laugh about this i
would say these women are coming at me
and i'm not telling them you're my
sister i'm not telling them you're just
a friend i'm like oh yeah have you met
my wife it's the first thing i'm saying
to everyone
it's just like i i didn't it's like oh
yeah this this is some girl yeah i don't
know no
like you know
women are still gonna be so
you know you know you
regardless of whether or not you
subjectively find me ugly i've gotta
tell you that's not my that's not my
struggling life but if you wanna talk
this way
in terms of entitlement
and then distance of lacking
entitlement lacking and then you want to
talk about justice and injustice
what would you say to me if i were in a
wheelchair
would you really have the nerve to say
to a man in a wheelchair that he doesn't
deserve the love of a woman who's
walking around on two legs how dare you
all right
isn't it funny how now it becomes
obvious
which side injustice is on here
right now if you talk to any woman who
is married to a man in a wheelchair
she's a close friend of yours and she's
honest of course she's going to admit
there are inconveniences i mean of
course
i've known couples you know there are
people who have a special house made for
someone with a wheelchair where like the
level of the windows is different and
the toilet is different
it's a lot of money it's a lot of times
whenever and still it's going to pitch
you up there are times when you're going
to get out of bed and say to your
husband oh look could you go grab that
thing for me i'm going to russia gotta
do this and he says she will look i
can't because it's like just getting out
of bed is way harder like getting out of
bed and getting dressed like if you
don't help him for him to get out of bed
and get dressed and
to help you
it's gonna take him way more time than a
man who has two working and you think oh
oh right you know you can kind of forget
the person you're with is disabled i i
knew a couple in thailand where um so
i've probably mentioned this before the
woman was profoundly disabled in a
wheelchair but she she wasn't it wasn't
like she could walk with crutches she
was completely disabled from the waist
down and she had to phone her husband
for help every single time she went to
the bathroom i say phone it tells you
something about the culture her husband
was a smoker i think he was a chain
smoker but he smoked cigarettes a lot
so if they were at home if she was like
washing the dishes in the sink or
something she would phone her husband
and her husband would be outside smoking
and her husband would come in and lift
her off the wheelchair and physically
put her on the toilet every single time
she went to the bathroom okay so it's
not a minor sorry it's not a minor
inconvenience the decision is going to
change the rest of your life forever
there are women
who fall in love with blind men there
are women who fall in love with a man in
a wheelchair and who the hell are you to
question who deserves who
who are you to question how someone
would be entitled to
another person's love do you see how
sick and twisted this is now
for you to come at me
for you to come at anyone and say
that man is too ugly to deserve or to be
entitled to
that woman or vice versa that woman is
too ugly
to deserve or be entitled that man
none of us
deserve love
are entitled to love love is precisely
what you give other people what you do
for other people what you feel for other
people and what you are
for other people above and beyond
what they deserve above and beyond what
they're entitled to
what they're entitled to
is respect
and duty
not love
never love
[Music]
are you done yeah you want to chime in
no i'm still livestreaming you want to
do it yeah stand up come up close to the
body
i don't i don't
say no i'm just going to read some
questions here
a series of events happened that made
him undesirable
as he tells it
but i just thought that was interesting
to hear you say that
with your ex and with me yeah yeah yeah
yeah
while you're with me you know
um yeah it's uh
i don't know if it's like something that
is like desirable to see that you're
somebody that's in a happy relationship
like it shows that you're
that you're desirable right yeah
it's never gonna make sense guys like
it's okay this is the other thing i want
to talk about all right
in human experience there are things
that are rational
there are things that are irrational but
there are also things that are
pre-rational so come back to this moment
you probably didn't notice this
we went into a salad shop last night
okay no
okay i was exhausted it's not worth it
but like like like my face did not look
good i was really tired
um it does it is ultimately actually
because of working out at the gym i had
a really big worry and 220 push-ups did
a lot of work at the gym and then you
don't really sleep that well then i for
various reasons i was exhausted i didn't
nap that day so um
i also didn't have any caffeine anyway
i'm at this salad shop and i'm haggard
and i'm wearing the mask
so how much of my [ __ ] face can you
see
okay and there and i'm with them with
melissa
right and melissa is paying attention to
me i know you weren't well i wasn't
going to point it out oh hey look that
chick's trying to get with me that
chick's got it
and there was a girl this is old school
to me this is old school for a way to
show your somebody you're interested in
there was this girl she was she was
looking at me she was like she was doing
it directly but she had a friend and
then she brought the friend over and she
was like talk to the like she's like
she's talking to the friend and being
like look at that
i'm i'm 42 guys
yeah okay so come on i mean what you're
saying because i know like you know
i was not in the mood i was and i was
pissed off at the guy was like look
what's really vegan on this man and none
of it's really vegan he said [ __ ] we're
leaving you know but i'm just saying
all right um okay so look guys you know
i understand the yearning to want the
whole world to be rational but that's
fundamentally childish
it's childish and evil it leads to evil
it's evil in itself and it leads to evil
okay you want you want the whole world
to be rational and you get older and you
get more sophisticated and you learn to
appreciate things that are irrational in
this world all right and there's this
third category
of the pre-rational
things that are pre-rational are things
that you apprehend and respond to
so rapidly
that reason later catches up with them
okay
so the classic example from buddhist
philosophy is that you walk into a dark
warehouse and you see a coiled rope
and on a deep instinctual level you
react to it as if it were a poisonous
snake
now i have lived in parts of the world
that have poisonous snakes
and where it is quite likely if you walk
into a dark room a cellar a warehouse
that there will be snakes there like
it's not a ridiculous thing and i've
lived in parts of the world where they
still use rope to tie things up like
these days it's mostly uh masking tape
like most different i think if you go to
an amazon warehouse nothing has rope
anymore you know what i mean so you got
to live in a culture where this makes
sense but bro
if you ever experience this you'll be in
a situation where you are seeing it with
your eyes
and your rational mind is like catching
up
and there's a level on which you see the
rope
but for a split second
you feel like it's a snake
but pre-rational
that reflects millions of years of
evolution
now conversely
i remember riding a bicycle by the side
of a mountain in northern laos so this
is a highway in laos which means it's a
narrow like one lane
a paved road okay and the third world
cup meeting of highway is different so
there's a narrow
uh single lane and there's one one truck
goes by every 15 minutes right
this is uh remote poverty-stricken
nonetheless and i stopped to look up
close at this snake and it was this is a
very interesting evolved behavior it was
hanging like a fish hook
it was hanging like an upside down
question mark right by the side of the
road in the clip yeah yeah it's
interesting
i don't have something good to
demonstrate with you if you imagine uh
if you imagine an old-fashioned umbrella
and you hold it upside down so that
and this snake was so beautiful with
such a piercing
uh
shade of green and i think this is true
a lot of snakes and the snake in
particular they live very short life
spans so they've sort of come straight
out of the egg they have this very
vibrant
you know quality to them
that i don't know
a lot of long-lived mammals don't have
they live for a short time and they're
the colors are very bright while they
live and so and i was completely
fearless i was in no way i didn't feel
afraid at all and i just really got up
like i got up within millimeters this i
was really examining and appreciating
this snake you know for its beauty and
also wondering about the
the evolved behavior here why would it
hang like that okay
i later found out
um this is the deadliest snake in laos
and the reason it's hanging like that is
that it's one of the only snakes that
when it gets hungry
will hang like that so it can cry to try
to tag can try to poison like a passing
a deer like a large
mammal to kill it
like the vast majority of snakes won't
do that like they eat tiny mice or
something like it's hope it's actually
out of desperation this is what i was
told like oh no no that's like one of
the only snakes they'll actually kill
even actually
whether or not it's deadly they'll
poison you and the poison will be like
unbelievably painful
so this is my point i'm looking at this
thing
rationally right but reason
is neither wrong nor right it's just
reason it's reasoning
you can reason yourself into a terrible
marriage all right and you can you know
what i mean you can reason your way into
a marriage and you can reason your way
out of a marriage you can reason your
way in you can reason your way into a
divorce right you can reason your way
into an early grave you can have a
completely rational response to a real
snake that is false and will get you
killed
and you can have an irrational
pre-rational
automatic
response to
a coiled rope
that's completely harmless right
is it correct or incorrect okay
so guys i am seeing the comments as they
come in
[Music]
for me
quote your video on laoshu made me think
not just about the ambitions of various
polyglots on youtube but even my own i
appreciate your candor thank you i hope
you're still here as soon as people
leave these comments and then disappear
um
i was just giving advice to another
youtuber
one hour ago very short time ago i don't
know if she'll take it i mean i
don't know if she'll she'll be happy to
hear it or not but i was talking to a
youtuber and saying look see there's a
digression from the top of this video
but the response this question i think
it's meaningful enough to say saying
look you know
you have to think about youtube as
filmmaking
you have to think about filmmaking as
work
and then you have to think about what
you're doing in your own real life as
something quite separate
uh
if you take it any other way down that
path you know uh madness lies
and
you know so i used an example which at
first may seem like it doesn't mean much
to you guys but think about it in my
life in your life you'll start to
realize how deep it is i said look it
has been difficult for me and i am still
struggling with the difference between
reading a book
in order to review it on youtube in
order to talk about it on youtube in
order to make a video about it on
youtube
and
making a youtube video about whatever
book i happen to be reading so i have
the dust jacket out of this one but i
might as well might as well shout out
andy no here
sorry here there's the book and the dust
jacket is coming off
yeah this is unmasked by andy now okay
so we're going to come back to this
issue there it is there it is without
the let's check out
um yeah nice yeah
um okay so it doesn't seem like a big
deal to you well okay what if you are a
restaurant review channel what if you're
a food review channel okay did you
really want to eat in that restaurant
or did you just go to eat in that
restaurant so that you can make a
youtube video about it okay
is this actually the cuisine you want to
cook is this the recipe book you want to
write or did you research this and make
this recipe
how about political activism did you
really make that trip to washington dc
because you want to be there you want to
do or you think or is it because you
have a youtube channel and you know you
can make a video
so it has this tremendous corrupting
influence on your life now your question
is about laoshu and language learning
and it with an example like that it's
the deepest of all like
are you learning chinese or are you a
filmmaker or are you pulling off a bunch
of stunts related to language learning
just so you can make youtube videos
about them what you know what is
the horse and what is the carriage here
right so those are tough questions and
i'm by the way i'm not here saying
there's like one answer to all of them
you know but um
yes
the whole
polyglot phenomenon on youtube the whole
language education as entertainment
phenomenon
and language education for profit and
language education to launch your career
as a sex symbol on social media like
there's a lot of that
you know
um the sexy female language teacher on
social media phenomenon there's a lot of
that going on
to some extent in the past i remember
with men i remember with handsome white
men living in japan
teaching you how to learn japanese
[Music]
so it has happened with male sex symbols
also yeah but i think the most
fundamental questions of all have to do
with recognizing you know youtube is
filmmaking filmmaking is work work is
not life or it's not the whole of your
life and then really thinking about the
relationship between those things
because
the number of hours you put into
learning a language
compared to the number of hours you'd
spend going to eat at a restaurant just
to make a video about it
you know this is this is tough this is
tough to deal with
hi chris thanks for joining the crowd if
you have a minute chris hit the thumbs
up button and more people can uh join us
in this um this horrifying conversation
okay so look guys um
coming back to question number one here
you know uh nobody is entitled to
anyone's love and as soon as we're
talking about entitlement and love in
the same sentence frankly i think we've
profoundly misapprehended what love is
and even on a mechanistic level how how
love works
um
in the same sense that you can be
terrified at least for a moment
of a snake
that you know for a fact is not
poisonous in any way if you're surprised
to discover a snake in your own basement
or in your own living room
and even though you rationally know like
you may live in a part of canada where
there are no poisonous snakes you know
or it may just be like even if you live
in australia where some snakes are
poisonous you recognize the species you
recognize the pattern you know this
particular snake is of no harm to anyone
you can still
react to it in a pre-rational way with
terror and a very profound terror that
is shaped and created by by evolution
right
and on the other hand
you may have no reaction at all when
seeing a real snake has in my hand and
again you can have the same reaction
also to a piece of rope it could be a
piece of rope but it's dark and you're
distracted you just know oh by the way
piece of rope started hanging down also
your alarm you react to it as if it were
a snake okay um
a lot of what's going on
especially with our face-to-face
interactions with sexuality is neither
rational nor irrational but
pre-rational
okay
and
okay look okay okay
you can never know
what aspects of your sexual experience
are rational irrational or professional
you can't know it
not even a reflecting effort so i'm
going to give you guys a great example
okay
there is a vegan restaurant here this is
this is about one year ago now maybe a
year and a half ago this is not that
long ago there's a vegan restaurant here
where you've got to line up like it's
the prison cafeteria and i don't like
this place
and i went in to buy pre-packed
uh seitan or tofu one of those you know
i was just buying something to cook at
home
so i go in
and there is this woman i would i would
guess she's about 30. she's not you know
like a lot of women here she's wearing
completely skin tight
revealing attire and i can tell from the
minute i walk in
she is really attracted to me
and during this first encounter i never
look at her directly
you know like i'm looking at the tofu i
kind of see her out of the side am i
like you get in line you move around to
the other side of her line as long as
you move around each other and by the
way she's really looking at me like
she's wanting me to look back at her you
know i mean she's she's looking straight
at me and i'm not looking at her and i'm
looking and i'm looking at the money and
i'm doing things and i've got to tell
you so like that on that encounter
like
yeah there's a sense in which is really
it's like looking at a rope and seeing a
snake like i didn't really have a clear
sense of even what she looked like i've
got to tell you i could feel how
attracted she was to me
and i felt attracted to her okay
now
all right so there's a there's a sequel
i met her again
spoilers okay
i know
she's in a vegan restaurant
to what extent this attraction i felt
towards someone
someone's calling me all right
this attraction i felt towards someone i
couldn't even really see clearly right
you could say well that's totally
irrational that's totally instinctual
some people would even try to argue oh
maybe it was your sense of smell like
you know like something like it's not
even seeing them or it's their aura or
something it's their magnetism people
will try to come up with these are
rationalizations right
okay but what i was feeling
how much of that is
this is a vegan restaurant
this is a vegan woman and there are
other things you can tell about her like
in terms of her social class like there
were a lot of cues about who someone is
obviously her level of physical fitness
just the fact that he's wearing the skin
tight revealing attire you know what i
mean
um
so i saw that woman again
i don't even know it was a month later
but maybe three weeks later or something
i went back same thing i went back to
buy some basic supplies i wasn't i
wasn't going for a meal i wasn't going
for fun and you know naturally you know
people live in patterns she was probably
there for the same reason we probably
was the same time of day too for all i
know you know i don't i don't remember
like that you know and i go in and it's
just the angle like i come in a
different angle i see here it's
different
and
she has
disgusting tattoos
she has tattoos which i didn't see last
time
she has tattoos that make me think she's
a scumbag and she's an idiot and she's
like part of the drug culture you know
and her style of hair which i didn't see
at all the first time a lot of things
about her appearance seeing her now more
clearly right away make me think this is
someone who uses marijuana this is
someone who uses ecstasy if someone uses
lsd this is someone who's part of a
whole
hippie yoga mat hard drug culture and
i'm sorry i'm not saying i'm not judging
all tattoos i'm judging the specific
tattoos this woman has
and what they tell you about her
character and her culture right this is
not
you can have a tattoo that's just a
circle you know you haven't it could be
anything you have a tattoo that says i
read aristotle okay those are not the
tattoos yet right you don't have a
tattoo that says a lot about you but the
tattoos this woman had and where they
are in her bodybuilding right away
whoa and of course and that's i might
recognize her i know i'm 100 certain
it's the same woman before and right
away i think wow i can't believe
i found this woman attractive like i
can't believe i felt and again i didn't
really see her
and on the other hand being all the way
there was like oh well i can see why she
was after me
i feel i feel too good for her just be
real with you you know this is i
wouldn't i wouldn't take this woman out
to lunch and i'm not interested at all
you know like right away it's like oh
you're not i'm you know again i don't
okay but with either one of those
experiences
you can force an interpretation onto it
that's a hundred percent rational right
like a
a super irrational reading is okay you
went to a vegan restaurant you assumed
this person was vegan maybe you assume
they even recognize you from your
youtube channel and you have a lot in
common you assumptions about them
politically ethically you have all these
positive assumptions just because you're
meaning a vegan restaurant there's a
rational explanation of why you felt
something positive for this person right
or just hey you want to assume the best
about them
you don't know anything about them
you're not really looking at them you
know
um and there's also this totally
pre-rational reading like no like these
are evolved animal instincts you're
reacting to something other person
and then the second meeting
where i basically reject her or feel
like this is someone i would never even
want to talk to
pardon me
you can look at that also and insist on
a completely rational interpretation
like oh well you saw her tattoos you
analyzed it this how
i've got to tell you that's not how i
experienced it anymore i didn't feel i
feel like that was my rational mind
catching up afterwards i feel like
seeing her the second time my reaction
was just as immediate and instinctual i
just was not attracted to her at all
that was how i felt it immediately and
then afterwards it takes a few seconds
like oh and look at those tattoos oh and
think about oh okay i guess she's that
kind of person you know that stuff you
know it
takes a few seconds for your your mind
to catch up with that you know
okay look so guys all kinds of great all
kinds of great uh comments and questions
here so uh pitter-patter says confidence
is a huge factor for both men and women
uh quote i think that's why isil is so
highly sought after lol okay
how can they even tell i'm confident
like in these situations a lot of my
encounters with a lot of my interaction
how how can they even tell you know
i just say in a lot of these things i
think instead we're dealing with this
and
like i can't sit here and say you're
wrong you know what i mean but i think i
think what you're trying to do it's
totally understandable is that you're
trying to take something that's
fundamentally irrational
and primarily this kind of pre-rational
thing
and you're trying to foist
rational thinking onto it you're trying
to force it to fit into a rational
mode of analysis
okay guys so for me on that issue that's
a wrap i'm happy to sit here for a
minute melissa if you want to throw
something in but you know i made i made
my point i had the profoundest part of
the argument first for me the deep end
of the swimming pool has to do with
overcoming any kind of thinking that's
involved with entitlement
again guys feel free to ask questions
now ask questions down forever hold your
peace um
you know
and then in terms of looking at the
world
what i think is a false and misleading
way in terms of justice and injustice
what you have to understand is that we
are relating to one another neither
rationally nor irrationally but
pre-rationally so even if you talk to a
woman who is committed to be married to
a man in a wheelchair all right
and i've already
spoken i've already talked this through
with you there are a lot of
disadvantages there are a lot of
inconveniences to being with the manager
there are a lot of inconveniences if
you're married to someone who's blind
okay like if you ask them well
wouldn't it be easier for you to be with
someone yeah that'd be easier but this
isn't about easy this is about love okay
this isn't about doing what's easy this
is what they're what what's convenient
right and he said then well what if you
could have exactly the same guy you're
in love with him but he's not confined
of course they choose that of course of
course it's preferable and i'm sure the
guy would prefer it too he'd prefer not
to be confined to a wheelchair he'd
prefer to be able to stand up and use
the toilet with a lot less difficulty
sure of course even if there's nothing
else to do of course
right
but um we're not making ques pardon me
we're not making these decisions in a
rational way it's not a question of
what's best it's not a question of
what's optimal it's not a question of
being with the most attractive person
you can be with or the most wealthy
person you can do with it's not a
question of choosing the person who is
most deserving or most entitled right
this is the person you can love you have
to decide is this or is this or not the
person i should love you know
and then uh
you know consequences fall from there
and you know the consequences can be
tremendously serious because you fall in
love with someone who's addicted to
gambling or addicted alcohol or addicted
to video games or we may disappoint you
in 10 000 other ways ethically or
intellectually besides
people you have fallen in love with
people you've decided to trust can
disappoint you in so many ways that the
inconvenience of helping someone who is
in a wheelchair that was blind with some
other physical disability those
inconveniences seem incredibly trivial
when you compare them to the kind of
betrayal you would have to endure if you
fall in love with a man who is addicted
to gambling or addicted to drugs or or
who betrays you or cheats on you or
stabs you in the back in 10 000
different ways so no you know um
but we really experience attraction
between people in a way that is that is
not rational and then the rational mind
races to catch up with it afterwards so
i mean if in any of these scenarios
women i've actually had whole
relationships with or women where i had
very brief encounters if you were to ask
why
why is this woman attracted you and this
person has the questions of course
asking a much more loaded poisonous
they say why why do you feel entitled to
this person being being attracted to you
or being like
you're asking the wrong question
there is no why
any answer you can offer to that
question why is going to be a
rationalization catching up afterwards
and you the person asks this question
you are rationalizing things in terms of
entitlement
in a way that i think is fundamentally
misleading bad and evil and wrong
so a little bit more commentary peter
patter says quote i can't think that's
the only contributing factor but you
also mentioned about speaking out in
university classes and having women come
up and talk to you afterwards right
uh
right intelligence i mean sorry i've had
so many videos talking about
intelligence and human sexuality that i
just haven't talked about that at such
length here but of course
and another question hapless jack says
quote
you're tall clearly strong it makes
sense ladies look like you you speak
clearly and concisely no nonsense no
[ __ ] i think it's your overall vibe
right okay but
to what extent is that rational and to
what extent is that pre-rational when
women meet me they don't know that i'm
sober i so i i don't think of maybe the
last time i drank alcohol was 21 but
like really i quit drinking it like my
drinking days were like 16 17. like
really drinking was already over for me
at 19. i can't say i drank zero alcohol
when i was 19 years old right but i've
basically been sober for my whole adult
life right but they meet me they have
these kinds of impressions you're
talking about right like oh this is how
the guy speaks in class this or this
other guy speaks to me
or whatever you know they meet me and
there's something they respond to right
and i have that characteristic because
i'm sober all the time even i mean my
overall intellect guys
i have all these brothers
none of my brothers can come on camera
talking
right now you know if i'd spent 20 years
getting drunk three nights a week do you
think i'd be on this level you know what
i mean okay so yeah i have all these
characteristics but they're responding
to that in a split second you know what
i mean they were there and maybe they
make up explanations in their own mind
afterwards for why they uh for why
they're like me right
but um i i don't even the factors you're
listing off here these are
rationalizations that come that come
afterward and when they meet me they
don't know i'm confident they don't know
i'm well spoken they don't know i'm
sober they don't know i'm trustworthy
they may learn those things in time
there are all kinds of redeeming
qualities i have that that agree from a
rational perspective you can say
attracts women or makes women more
interested in me once they're attracted
to me blah blah blah
but no in that moment with those
encounters when you when you meet people
that the truth is they don't know why
and i don't know why
either
and i'll never know why and any
explanation i can offer will be
susceptible to the same kind of
withering analysis mostly have it to
what extent are you are you foisting a
rationalization onto something that is
fundamentally uh pre-rational and for
that reason it can never be judged
as just or unjust
all right
i remember i made a blog post about this
there was a woman she to me she was very
good-looking uh a very good-looking very
short woman who became a lawyer
someone can google this and figure out
the case i commented on it's a very good
looking very short woman high level of
educational attainment and and career
and i saw one youtube video she seemed
smart she seemed very intelligent she's
brilliant even let's say in the youtube
video right
and she got sexually involved with lamar
odom
this
[ __ ]
drug addict basketball player and that
was in the period of lamar odom's life
when he'd been i think he'd been kicked
off of his basketball team
he'd been married to a member of the kim
kardashian family and then his marriage
broke and he was really a drug addict he
was like he was really in the most
pathetic sense right anyone going to say
what do you like about this guy what's
wrong with you anybody can say quote
unquote he doesn't deserve you
right okay all all of us can imagine
come on
sorry maybe if you're 16 you can't
imagine
i can imagine exactly what she found
attractive and in this interview she was
being cross-examined and it was like
have you seen him using cocaine no no it
wasn't even cooking smoking crack
crack cooking inside your own house have
you seen this yourself and the answer
was basically yes she because she was a
trained lawyer she was giving these she
was using this very peculiar wording so
she couldn't be held legally accountable
um which was also interesting here and
showed that she was really sharp she
knew how to answer a question like that
without getting herself
uh hooked for for a crime or something
you know what i mean so yes some of the
artists which deal with he'll grow
several times to my knowledge but anyway
he had a really serious drug one but
yeah there was one in particular that
got into the
guard of the newspapers but no he was a
serious drug addict so why would this
woman fall in love with this guy he was
living in her home in her apartment or
condo or whatever she had why would she
continue to tolerate him when she knows
he's a dreaded she sees him using hard
drugs in her own home it could ruin her
legal career it could ruin her whole
life and you love that man and he's ugly
it's lamar odom come on he's got a face
that could stop a clock
[ __ ]
he's hideous he's a [ __ ] watching any
interview with them what do you what do
you think they talk about the morning
they roll out of bed and like let's talk
about politics and the upcoming
california primary let's not no
you know what i mean the guy's the worst
stereotype of a of a dumb job
i i wasn't born yesterday kids i can
imagine what she sees and i can imagine
even what she loves about him and i can
imagine she brought i could imagine that
that relationship brought a lot of
things into her life that would be
totally absent if she were with a
cerebral man whom she met in law school
the kind of guys wearing a
suit and tie who went through law school
and did paperwork all day with all the
poetry and their soul of a career
bureaucrat you know what i mean this
this kind of guy and then you know
here's this i forget what he's a seven
foot tall basketball player he's he's
incredibly tall um he's ugly but he's
cute you know
okay come on guys i wasn't born i can
imagine there were a lot of things that
made that but
so again you notice the difference
earlier on whatever an hour ago there
was this comment from wildstyle
wildstell said love is blind
i'm not saying love is blind i'm saying
that love is pre-rational and then the
rational mind catches up with it and
rationalizes it and thus it's not
susceptible to analysis in terms of
justice and injustice you can't say it's
an injustice for this woman to fall in
love with this man this lawyer and a
fallen drug addicted basketball player
and we it's profoundly misleading and
wrong to talk about in terms of
entitlement
so i have a question related to this
title hit it up just speak loud so they
can hear you good yeah
right that's the next question yeah
you're going do you it well you want to
say something no i was just curious if
you've already
in a way addressed the socialism
of
you know that we're all entitled to
certain things we're entitled to
healthcare
education can you can you grab the book
on ancient greek comedy it might be on
your desk yeah yeah yeah
so so melissa is asking about the
overlap between the two topics we're
we're talking about here today guys
um so
has a comedy um dealing with a utopian
or dystopian scenario in which people
quite literally socialize the d
so melissa and i
we are fans
of a youtube channel
we utterly despise and hate this youtube
channel
uh kristen leo and she uses this
catchphrase socialize the d okay
you don't know what d stands for i can't
help you um
so there is a comedy in here about a
utopian plan
whereby the women of athens take over
the panics one day so this part of the
plot is worth including in the summary
a bunch of women disguise themselves as
men
and go into their system of direct
democracy it's not a parliament it's the
pinnex but it's their system of voting
and they put forward this proposal to
communalize access to sex to socialize
the deed
now i'm gonna forget the numbers off
hand
but the most fundamental question is
well if you do this if you basically
force uh
you know beautiful people to have sex
with ugly people well you know like this
is going to result in a huge number of
ugly people trying to have sex with all
these beautiful people and the people
people are going to run away or resent
it like it's not going to work
beautifully we're going to flee from a
city where they're coerced into having
sex with enormous numbers of ugly people
just because this is your this is your
socialist utopian fantasy for how for
how life ought to be will be more just
or what have you got to try adding a
little bit more light in here guys
actually babe when you have a stick why
don't you turn on that light back there
right here thanks
um
great thanks that's better
anyway so they come up with a
mathematical formula and it's something
like
for every one
young beautiful person you have sex with
you have to have sex with seven
old or fat or ugly people like there's a
ratio you're committed to to so to
socialize the d right so it's it's not
quite uh equality
and
uh it ends with i mean it's a comedy but
it ends with a horrendous scene of gangs
of old ugly women going around and
demanding sex with these young beautiful
men that it's the men that are being
chased down and forced to have sex with
old fat and ugly women that they don't
want to make love to and the young men
are saying no no no i just want to sleep
with this
beautiful young woman who's you know my
my girlfriend or son i know they're drag
they're the old old women are dragging
away the the handsome young man to have
to have sex with them so that was a
utopian comedy or that was showing that
utopia is really dystopia about in this
sense um
socializing socializing the d
the um
communalization of is that was that the
door no it was just someone next to me
all right somebody going fast all right
sorry it's been a long time had someone
actually enter
uh stage left that do you remember that
happened when i was in kunming a couple
times had people come in the door when i
was last year do you remember that
yeah anyway
[Laughter]
so yeah we have a question here about
brave new world yeah yeah yeah
i think it's a terrible book i think
brave new world is garbage but yeah it's
a very influential science fiction book
uh offering a very different view of how
uh sexuality could be liberated in the
future you know
we have a complaint here that i assume
is directed towards melissa that your
video about hitomi was rude
dear sir how dare you
how dare you suggest
that our well-intentioned and profound
critique of miss hitomi mochizuki was in
any way rude or improper
i i say
okay so there's a great question from
the audience before we move on to the
second
even more profound question and why this
is titled sex association sorry briefly
that digression was about um
the extent to which sex and socialism
are one on the same question because
there have been utopian ideals about
socializing the d including some very
stupid left-wing youtube channels today
who talk about this ideal
um we have a very profound question
quote eisel do you consider yourself
more attractive than vegan gains wife
jasmine so guys i could repeat here
exactly the same thing i've said again
and again and again all right
we can talk about
subjective beauty and we can talk about
objective beauty okay
um
subjective beauty is many things to many
people you can love someone because
they're kind to you you can love someone
because they're interesting you can love
someone because they've brought so many
positive wonderful things in your life
even though they're ugly and they may
not look ugly to you like you may they
may be beautiful in your eyes and i use
the example before of a painting a
particular painting they have value to
you a particular photograph may have
value even though to other people it's
ugly there's a subjective and personal
sense in which one person is is
beautiful despite all these things and
again people do fall in love with
hideously deformed people what happens
all the time
it's reality so one thing is the
subjective standard but then we can talk
about what is in most real world
situations the objective standard of
beauty which is in fact an
inter-subjective standard of beauty okay
so look guys i've given you a lot of
antidotes i know a lot of you have
joined more recently you may not have
been here since the start of the live
stream
uh by the way feel free to share this
link to anyone on reddit or facebook who
would be completely scandalized and
horrified by this in-depth discussion of
human sexuality sure with reddit
r slash bread tube they'd especially
appreciate what i'm calling this video
okay
and look guys
my best girl melissa
if she got a job at starbucks there
would be other guys at starbucks trying
to get at her and they would be
competing over her okay also
life is in some ways unfair for women so
melissa today is 28 years old 10 years
from now
that might not be the case like i don't
know what she'll at 38 maybe not at 48
maybe not at 58
you know stuff but for melissa 20 years
old there's absolutely no doubt if
melissa starts working at starbucks
again let's just say nobody knows like
let's just say she has no youtube
channel and no instagram nobody knows
anything about her
there will be male co-workers trying to
get her and competing over and there
will be male customers trying to get at
her and
so
subjective and
inter-subjective so again
there's a painting that i really like
and i really value it but i go to an art
auction or let's say an art show it's
better if it's not an auction we go to
an art show in paris where paintings are
put up and nobody else wants to buy it
and nobody else is impressed that nobody
else thinks it's beautiful okay
this happens so you're not going to say
objectively the the painting is
worthless well look you like this
painting
nobody else is interested okay
now guys i've got to tell you something
vegan gaines may sincerely love jasmine
it may be that subjectively to him she's
the most beautiful woman in the world
if jasmine goes to work at a starbucks
it is not going to be for her what it
would be for melissa all right it's just
not they're not going to be on the same
level in terms of that intersubjective
standard of beauty not in this culture
you know not in
not in canada and we're all in canada
not here or not now okay no now there
are a lot of reasons for that
partly it's her appearance
partly it's her attitude partly it's her
speaking voice partly it's what we call
charisma
you know she is a dumpy
self-loathing video game addict she's a
horrible attitude
horrible
oh william i must have said my age wrong
sorry
william says happy birthday sorry
william i i didn't just get a year older
if i if i said
i'll delete the comment because it's an
error of thanks but it's not my birthday
if i screwed up i'm sorry
so once in a while i do make errors here
guys anyway
thanks anyway james thanks everybody
william thanks
anyway
um
okay
we were just talking about these other
factors too we're talking about the role
of what could be simply summarized as
charisma right when i'm talking about
why are all these women after me okay if
you want one word charisma the melissa
actually does have some charisma and you
can see it in these few videos and like
no no i mean okay we're comparing you to
jasmine
jasmine has negative charisma right
she's a self-identified misanthrope you
know she's masculine where she ought to
be feminine she has a you know
she has a dark cloud overhead all the
time right so no i do think if you're
making that comparison of course melissa
is unholding of course appearance is
part of it but also these other factors
you know matter so if you're asking me
that question you know sure i've got an
answer and and you know there's a
subjective answer and there's in this
intersubjective sense there's an object
to mass so guys why do we have to be why
do we have to be uptight about it why do
we have to pretend this is a problem for
anyone why can't we just be real about
it you know
and uh god here on youtube you see it
all the time i mean sorry someone was
complaining about our critique of
hitomi mojito does anyone doubt that her
youtube career is based on her
appearance does anyone doubt it's based
on her inter-subjective level of
attraction
you know it is what it is and um
again people are uncomfortable with for
the same reason printing i'm sorry my
words now
people are uncomfortable with it for the
same reason that they try to that we
discussed before
that they try to voice concepts of
justice and injustice under human
attraction and love they feel that it is
unjust for people to be
unequally attractive and in fact it is
neither just nor unjust anything you
want to say babe that's nothing but
anything you want to say jumping in on
us
socialize the d
yeah i mean there's
a certain amount of entitlement that
comes through in some of these comments
yes that they feel entitled to
love from somebody else i think that's
part of it and this sense of justice or
injustice and love is
um
yeah it's hard to be mature about that
when you're not
yeah you're not able to think it through
but once you do
well look sorry this may seem off topic
but it's but it's on topic so one of my
grandmothers was jewish i'm half jewish
and
she joined
a golf club
never played golf
why
because she grew up with anti-semitism
and up to a certain point in her life
all the golf clubs in canada excluded
jews they were whites only golf clubs
they openly said that they didn't allow
jewish members and then it was a big
accomplishment for her she was proud she
was gonna go out and join this golf club
and pay all this money
i you probably if you read between the
lines i think this is completely
pointless and ridiculous this is my this
is my opinion but that was her
experience in life right
it's hard to be cynical about an
institution that you have been excluded
from with prejudice
for a lot of people
love
is an institution that they feel they
have been excluded from with pressures
it's very hard for them to have
equanimity or detachment or see it for
what it is i mean i can remember saying
to people who are either less sexually
experienced than me or who were actually
virgins i've known a couple people who
remained virgins so they were like 25 or
whatever they've remained virgins late
in the life
do i know anyone who got to 30. i forget
i've known some people who stayed
virgins late into life and i remember
saying that look what you don't
understand is that for people like me
having sex is like washing my hands
i do it multiple times a day every day
like if this is just part of the drum
beat
of life
by the way
if i miss a day it's for a reason
oh no oh no no oh no i should say that
every day
unless
[Laughter]
that's the truth all right all right
sorry you know if you've had if you've
had a fight if you've had a conflict
with your boyfriend or girlfriend if
you're mad at each other or something if
there's some if there's some reason but
yeah it's like look you can romanticize
this you can build it up in your mind
you can resent this you can have all
this stuff right well you know if you
know someone who's jewish who grew up in
an anti-semitic society if you know
someone who's black they grew up in a
phobic society towards them an
oppressive racist society towards black
people they may have all kinds of ideas
about how great it would be to be able
to play tennis or play golf
in this exclusive club or this exclusive
resort they may build it up in their
minds it's very hard to have detachment
and equanimity about an institution that
is that has prejudicially excluded you
and people who are stuck being virgins
or people who've only had a few
dysfunctional failed relationships they
never really experienced love and
long-term meaningful high commitment
relationship like people who for whom
these things haven't worked out they are
gonna look up at that golf club they're
gonna look up at that tennis club you
know they're gonna look at that elite
institution and feel like oh oh you guys
are having so much fun it's so great in
there inside that institution i can't
get into when you're going to resent it
and you're going to think about
entitlement you're going to think about
justice and injustice and you're going
to think what is it about me or my
appearance or how it was born that keeps
me out of that club
but you're wrong
right right right that's why that's why
it's in the title
no i know and it's it's like you want
socialism instead of socialize the d you
want to socialize the golf club you want
to have a socialist golf club i look i
can end the video there we don't have to
get into other topics of socialism no
it's true i mean they are related with
this idea of of justice and justice yeah
by the way there's a question here uh
jasmine is live streaming right now
so plant-based the guy who made this
comment
the last time i looked at her channel
she was doing a nine hour continuous
live stream playing video games
you know nine hours if her i don't know
if she gets up and goes to the bathroom
ah friend of mine
okay it's a lot of good questions here
guys so look i can throw away my plan
for this video i'm happy to just talk to
you guys about whatever i'm trying to
talk about whatever melissa melissa if
you've got more questions like totally
you know what i mean
i don't have to force any direction or
conclusion in this video so nacho asks
and it's been revealed that nacho is
female not nacho identifies as female
nacho asks quote isil i've heard you
complain many times about people in
general not being honest with others and
with themselves how are you not in mist
and throw up yourself okay you know what
the truth is nacho
um
i love people
and i love life
and i can remember actually uh a fight i
had with melissa about this once where
melissa said to me she was being
insulting to her she didn't
intentionally insulting way she said oh
well you know you
you're you're a misanthrope and you
don't like i was like
who are you talking at that point i
forget we've been together for one year
or something i was like you know me
better than that like i'm that you know
who are you talking about right now
that's not true of me at all you know i
remember a rap lyric it's a nothing rap
lyric from a nothing song it's not a
great song but remember a rap lyric that
just says you know my life is so [ __ ]
up and i love it
you know
and i've thought about that and i felt
that way a different stage in my life
really guys i've been in a situation
where i have nothing but a backpack
members of the communist party and the
government of laos have just literally
told me they're going to kill me
the only money i have in the world is in
a bank account inside laos i've got to
get back in
i'm homeless i'm jobless everything i
own is in this one backpack i literally
i don't have a bank account i don't have
a credit card you know and it's like and
man i'm so [ __ ] happy you know i'm so
happy like really i was smiling ear to
ear that whole time i've told you guys
uh stories about this [ __ ] before and um
you know i remember i was laughing at my
boss or my former boss he's like well
look this is the situation the
government's threatened to kill you
you're getting kicked out of the country
you've lost your job like this is the
situation and i was smiling and laughing
and he said well you're laughing now i
said no no no no no
i'm going to be laughing about this for
the rest of my life
meet up with me when i'm 65. if you
think i'm going to be old and bitter
you're i'm still going to be laughing
you know no i love
my life and i love your life also
and you know there are some people who
struggle
to just not hate others
and i'm i'm at the opposite extreme i'm
someone who has to struggle to
to not love others too much you know
what i mean because my natural
incarnation of tendency i love other
people i love humanity you know really
and i don't love them
despite their complexity or despite
their hypocrisy i love them because of
it you know what i mean like i i love
the struggle you know what i mean i love
what they're i love what they're going
through i love the tragedy as well as
the triumph but you know what i'll be
honest i love tragedy more than drive
you know most of my interests in life
have focused on what's tragic i don't i
don't research success stories i
research disasters i mean for real so
melissa read that great article i wrote
about uh you know i've written articles
about mass starvation and revolutions
that went horribly wrong and utopias
that rhetorically wrong and terrible
almost all of my research interests in
life have been like the darkest aspects
of human nature including genocide
including you know
um
no but you know i i really love people
and i really love you know human nature
now look guys this is reciprocal
anything you love anything you
appreciate anything you you approve of
you know
um it's gonna be reciprocal with
something else you despise
and i've always pointed out to people
when they talk about loving one culture
more than another if someone says they
love chinese culture well that means you
don't really like indian culture you
know like there's some other culture you
dislike you making judgments about
culture it's going to be reciprocal
and look guys for me the most horrifying
image
is drone footage
of a herd of
thousands of penguins on antarctica
awking and waddling from side to side
through the foot
milling around
in circles the socialization and herd
behavior
of penguins
right it's horrifying and what do these
penguins do they leap into the freezing
cold ocean and kill whatever they can
set their beaks on they kill one fish
after another just so they can get up
out of that ocean and not starve for
another day and waddle around in a
circle with the other penguins
squawking
mindlessly
right
human life
robbed of its intelligence human life
robbed of its ability to reflect to
analyze to philosophize to appreciate to
think politically
even you know is horrifying to me you
know
what is animal in human nature in this
sense the mindless life of the herd
you can see it in penguins you could see
it another another
you know mindless relatively mindless
animals that's horrifying to me and i
this is a big difference between me and
a lot of vegans a lot of vegans glorify
you know wild animals they glorify the
life they glorify pet dogs and cats you
know when i look at a dog when i look at
a cat when i look at penguins in the
herd this way for me this is the most
vivid thing because they're really what
they're they're the way that they're
squawking it doesn't have the quality of
a bird in the forest giving it a
specific call with a specific meaning
some of the more intelligent birds come
much closer to us that way
sorry it's been proven i could get into
this and prove that some birds like
ravens are actually remarkably
intelligent they're not as smart as you
and i but you know they can't appreciate
this live stream right now but they do
have some language they have some
ability to communicate a particular
threat a particular opportunity they
have ability to communicate hey there's
food here they have ability to
communicate some of these things
um
you know no but i i
you know as much as i love the life of
the mind and that's why i love my own
life and why i love your life and like
there's really a sense in which i can
say i love you
like and i love sharing my life with
other people and i love other people who
are my fans coming to my life and
sharing their life with me i'm gonna be
real with you even when i don't like
them
really there are people i don't like and
i still love them for sharing their
struggle with me you know what i mean
like i still love that they're going
through it and they're we're going
through it together in a sense you know
i i love all that right but it's all
based on the life of the mind it's all
based on the intellect
and the intellect that separates us from
animals and that conqueror distinguishes
us from animals and makes animals in
some ways our diametric opposite you
know what i mean and instead and whether
it's the life of the
life of the penguin or the life of the
polar bear
it's horrifying sir a polar bear gets up
every day to kill something and doesn't
even know what
prowling around you may not know this
before progress but it's so cold that
you know dead meat doesn't rot
a polar bear at all times is wearing a
necklace of little
frozen crumbs of dead animals of the
corpses of its prey you know it clings
there clings to the fur and it's so cold
you know it doesn't rot or drop away and
they stink
the unspeakable stench
of a polar bear in the wild you know to
get up and mindlessly kill and never
know why
and never know what any of it means and
never know and never question
why you exist
you know um it's horrifying you know i
love the life of the mind and i totally
despise a life you know without a mind
so you know
um
yeah i'm very much the opposite of a
misanthrope and frankly even in my most
cynical videos most of which are
humorous when i'm joking in a kind of um
when i'm joking in a provocative way you
know actually i think you can see my
love of humanity and love of life you
know shines through that
great question fully raw christina is
still a virgin ride
great question do you do you play
rainbow six
[Laughter]
natasha says oh you know me natasha says
quote i get the impression isil embraces
suffering as a learning experience
well right i do
but i can't embrace it for other people
right there are other people who would
go through the same suffering i've been
through or less
and they're just traumatized by it
they're just destroyed by it for them
it's not a learning experience like the
same thing could be a learning
experience for me and not for other
people so yeah i can't learn for you i
can't suffer for you i can't suffer with
you even you know what i mean but yes
for me
that is exactly true and i i really
fashioned that philosophy before i ever
got involved with buddhism in some ways
it's also the opposite of what i might
say you know
[Applause]
[Music]
okay guys so
we have a complaint from someone that
youtube keeps censoring his question
well why don't you find a way to
rephrase it in a way that won't be
censored what am i supposed to tell you
find a way to state it that doesn't
involve curse words okay
all right guys so i'm happy talking
motivation i think i'll really briefly
roll on to the other question that i had
and then call this tonight because it is
it is
about socialism um so look i had a
question following up um i i have a
couple of new viewers by the way from
india and sri lanka i'm happy to have
them
there have been times in my channel when
i considered
you know really intentionally trying to
quote the court the uh the larger
audience that was offered by by india
and dealing with some of the political
questions over there and i think it is
interesting that people who have a hindu
or buddhist cultural background they
often relate to me positively even
though i mean nihilistic atheists even
though a very harsh critic of both
hinduism and buddhism because they see
in me some of those same ethical
qualities of
uprightness and steadfastness and some
of those puritanical moral qualities
that they value in their own in their
auditions so i'm happy however it's also
true that the questions i've gotten
lately from my new viewers or my new
fans from india or sri lanka
they're phrased
they're phrased in a way that actually
makes it difficult for me to understand
what they're getting at so one of those
questions i um
i answered earlier was concerning the
the wealth of nations
why is it or how is it that there's this
astounding inequality and wealth between
different countries and of course india
itself was very much the main question
on the table now i made an earlier video
attempting to answer why i attempted to
talk through uh some of those things at
different levels from different angles
or or what have you but i got a further
reply saying no no no that really didn't
answer my question at all and fair
enough but
i calls them like i see them like i
again the way some of these people use
the english language or what it is
they're insinuating or how they frame
their argument it might be a little a
little strange to me
but this person was really wanting me to
get into the question of
why and how
japan for example had achieved this kind
of wealth let's say california also
what were the sacrifices or what were
the strategic decisions that made it
possible to achieve extraordinary even
opulent wealth
in some places not others given that
you know broadly speaking especially
with these large parts of the earth's
earth's surface
you have the same kind of natural
resources involved like you know if
you're talking about africa as a whole
and kind of
india and pakistan as a whole like sort
of the subcontinent talking about yeah
well japan is actually the worst off in
terms of natural resources we're not
comparing uh the arctic circle we're not
comparing greenland to africa but you
know well it's not oh you can grow rice
anywhere you know you can farm chocolate
anywhere it's hot enough okay bad
example
you know the point is we're not looking
at a situation where there's some simple
material factor you can point to and say
oh well you could only grow cotton in
one of these places and cotton is the
secret to wealth or
oil that drilling oil is the secret to
wealth or something so this person is
really wanting me to talk more
specifically about about this kind of
wealth inequality so now again i do
think that um
oh well too bad it's too bad that people
can't participate in these
in these discussions
um
[Music]
okay
so this comes back to the same kind of
resentment that is often either
implicitly or explicitly at the basis of
complaints
against capitalism complaints about
inequality complaints about injustice
such as we talked about earlier in this
video and very often people haven't
examined what their assumptions are of
what justice would be right so
whenever you narrow it down to talk
about any one particular industry it's
soon revealed just how absurd these
assumptions are whether they're proposed
by people who are self-consciously
socialist or not there are all kinds of
people who really feel morally that
india ought to be just as wealthy as
japan or they should both be equally
mediocre they should be made level so
that japan is maybe japan is less
wealthy and india is wealthier so that
the extremes of wealth and poverty you
know are eliminated okay
so here's the problem
the problem is time
can you imagine a world
in which hollywood california did not
have any competitive advantage in the
film industry
but in which each and every city in
india each and every city in europe each
and every city in china each and every
city in africa
had an equal apportionment of the film
industry
talk about socialize the d
you want to talk about socializing the
film industry
this is an interesting example to think
through because if we said this about
gold mining or the oil industry right
away it would seem impossible to say
well gold isn't located everywhere right
okay all right
okay i'm gonna tell you this you may not
know this you may not have researched
this
there was only one competitive advantage
that hollywood california ever had in
the history of the film ministry one of
the reasons i know this it was something
i was interested in many many years ago
i read the autobiography of charlie
chaplin
it was very striking to me that he
described what
uh hollywood was like when the streets
were empty
when there were
paved streets and street lamps and empty
blocks after after block when the city
had just sort of the plan had been drawn
on a grid of the map and it'd be yet to
fill in with fill in with buildings the
film industry was there
you know he started in the black and
white silent filmmaker he started in
england and then went to
hollywood
he was part of the kind of pioneering
generation and everyone knew
and he described beverly hills being
literally hills like there was a time
when it was just there were just hills
there there were no houses there were no
shops like he was there when that but
everyone knew
everyone knew how enormous this film
industry was going to be and that's
where it was going to be so i i looked
into the economics of that it's just
something that interested me
back at the time it still interests me
now in some ways okay at that time
it was one advantage hollywood
california had and that was sunlight
the quality of the actual film in the
cameras was much worse in charlie
chaplin's heyday of course during his
life all these things improved that was
silent film the silent black winkle they
needed incredibly intense light and you
guys may not know this they also used
incredibly intense makeup where like the
contrast between black and white on
people's faces was also like often it
would look ridiculous in real life but
that's what would turn up well on
uh on camera song there's this really
stark uh extreme contrast of makeup and
so on and you needed
really bright light with no clouds and
of course no rain
that was the
only advantage hollywood california had
why is it
that people in china still watch movies
made in hollywood today
what is the advantage what is it that
cannot be distributed equally around the
world
and then secondly this is really the
more subtle because these things exist
in time
right
why is it you can't just go
to an empty valley in india where today
there are nothing but hills
and start building new roads and start
putting up lamp posts and start building
sound stage and say hey guys this is the
start of a whole new
film industry
it can never happen
twice
right it can never
happen again there was one opportunity
at one time
and in one place
right
and even though people in china don't
speak english they really don't they're
watching those films either dubbed in
chinese or subtitle chase it's a huge
it's a huge disadvantage right you still
can't reproduce the competitive
advantages that hollywood has in china
they're trying they will try
right now this pattern broadly speaking
is what happens again and again in all
industries and not just uh cultural
industries as we say not just
openly and obviously creative industries
i mean in a sense
all industries are created
i spoke to an expert it's not worth
telling the whole story
and he claimed
that the crucial factor that kept
um fashion and design rooted in milan
was the number of craftsmen and small
industrial shops making molds making
these high books i was gonna say high
tech they're not really high tech making
these crucial elements that the design
industry needs the manufacturing
industry needs at a really high quality
there are guys who do certain kinds of
sculpting and certain kinds of technical
jobs there's a cluster of skilled people
in milan some of them attached more to
the fashion industry some industrial
design
but he's saying milan has these
advantages and it's true they've held on
what was the advantage milan had 500
years ago or something it's not just the
fashion industry do all these things in
mind why can't we just do that again in
india why can't we
even
within china
i lived through really the birth and
death of this kind of optimism you guys
may or may not know this story but when
the communist government of china
decided to basically revive capitalism
capitalism under
communist tyranny basically right
when they decided to do that
um
the place with the most spectacular
economic growth and overall
transformation was shanghai
and everybody saw it of course a lot of
chinese people visited but it was on tv
it was in magazines and everyone in
china has been told this is the future
shanghai happened once
and everyone in china was planning for
and getting ready for it everyone was
building roads that led nowhere like
literally it's like i just described
building roads through the hills of
beverly hills where there's nothing
there but hills roads through green
grass fields and so on there was this
optimism because people thought oh
now that this happened in shanghai
next it's going to happen in 10 more
cities and 100 more cities there's going
to be shanghai everywhere there's going
to be the shanghai effication
of all of china
and it never happened
because what happened in shanghai could
only happen once even in an economy as
enormous
as china even an economy with as much
growth as china right for all of those
industries it could only happen once
okay you want to you want to talk about
exceptions there are some industries
where it happened twice there were two
places on planet earth where they make
racing bicycles bicycles that are good
enough to be used in races one is italy
the other is taiwan
do you want to be the third place do you
want to risk
you want to try to do in india
you want to compete with italy and
taiwan really
good luck
by the way i'm not saying your business
will fail i'm not saying you'll be
failing i'm saying you will fail to
reproduce hollywood you'll fail to
reproduce shanghai you'll fail to be the
the greatest center for this industry in
the world but totally you you could have
some success and many do i mean all of
those businesses it's not that it's not
that there's zero filmmaking
on the rest of planet earth right
now the clustering effect that happens
in economics film is a great example of
all right why does hollywood matter
hollywood is where the casting takes
place hollywood is where the auditioning
takes place
hollywood is where the investment is
arranged in advance for projects that
haven't been made yet
there is no gold mine
there is no oil rig there's nothing
physically linking it to that place
and to my knowledge something like 20
years after the film industry started
the reliance on sunlight was already
over it was real like there's just this
early period where they really needed
very bright sunlight partly because the
quality of the film was so bad having
sunlight is still nice
but very rapidly the quality of uh the
film and lighting and all kinds of
things soon enough it was certainly
possible to have the film industry based
in connecticut
but connecticut could never be what
hollywood already was because hollywood
already existed
success in one place completely snuffs
out the possibility of success in others
now this is not completely alien to
left-wing discourse melissa read some
karl marx lately so the concept that
marxists adapt and discuss and propound
to deal with this is the concept of
super profits so marx doesn't know much
about economics he really doesn't
but one of the notions he popularized is
that in various industries you go
through what normal economics would call
a sunrise and sunset phase in the
industry but that there's this initial
period of the opportunity for super
profits you're making amazing profits
when something is brand new so i would
say a textbook example of this although
it may be misleading in some ways was
the boom in boxed cereal in the united
states so uh
cheerios
corn pops
uh frosted flakes this kind of thing
right now as ever called the the
original one was uh corn flakes and
grape nuts a lot of you guys they don't
know graveyards but that was one of the
originals right
and i'm sorry i forget that there was
one town in the united states there's a
famous thing same way there was a gold
rush there was a serial rush there was
this boom there was this brief period
but this is one town and they were
paying people these really high wages to
come and work in the in the cereal
industry there and so on so this is this
is basically the marxist stereotype that
there's a brief period when something is
a new invention a new discovery a new
horizon opens up you have a brief period
where there's it's super profitable you
know
and then that then that closes up now i
i basically think marx is
dumb and i think that even his analysis
of this one issue
is dumb
but it's significant to know here
because this is the sense in which
socialists and eleven people are aware
of this or grudgingly admit it right
whether we're talking about um the
fashion industry or the textile industry
like mass production textile or the
difference between well design takes
place in some one place and
manufacturing takes place in another or
you know the difference between car
factories in detroit in the glory days
of detroit and you know a later period
when this has been ground down to people
being paid minimum wage and no longer
there's no longer the kind of optimism
you know attachment
socialists have a vocabulary for dealing
with these things that's derivative of
marx in this way okay
but the truth is
it's not
that making a movie was more profitable
when charlie chaplin was alive
it's not
that making a movie
reached a larger audience
when charlie chaplin was alive right
think about when charlotte chaplin had a
hit film what percentage of the
population of planet earth saw that film
and today when you have a real hit film
what percentage i mean even within
europe even within america
africa china the whole world right the
number of people watching and consuming
movies and paying for it and the revenue
generated but it's not the case
that that early period of opportunity is
more profitable not by definition anyway
it could be now look even with this
thing with boxed cereal well if they
charged a hundred dollars for a box of
cereal nobody would buy it that would be
super profitable right like okay the
early days of box cereal when they could
charge a really high price no the whole
reason why people were excited about it
it was cheap it had to compete with
bread if bread is cheaper than cereal
nobody's going to eat bread you know
sorry nobody's getting cereal they're
going to buy bread but no no so the
product is cheap right so again mark
says analysis it's profoundly misleading
right
but the power that exists in that early
period is is precisely to initiate the
clustering effect right so you have one
town that produces boxed cereal
so what do you get there you get a
clustering now you start to build
railroad tracks that bring in the right
kind of wheat in bulk and dump it into a
silo and put it into a processor in a
huge scale billions of tons per year or
whatever that vast amounts and then you
have a big machine that drives it and
threshes it and processes it and bakes
it extrudes it and so on okay so you
have all this machinery you have all and
you have certain kinds of skilled
engineers and laborers that are all
brought together in one place what is it
they have in milan
that's so special ultimately it's the
people ultimately it's the clustering of
skilled people
people who can make the right kind of
plastic mold the right type of um
you know tool and die machining who can
do everything you need to make a
high-end whether it's a designer purse
that has little metal elements in it or
designer clothing or um designer
computers
tell me
whatever is designer shoes those there's
a clustering of small businesses
providing these skilled services that
are all in one place at one time what is
it that hollywood has the actual camera
equipment it's all made in china now
if you want to buy good luck buying a
camera that is not made in china you
know i mean some of them they have
components made in germany they have
components i admit there's some high-end
stuff that's not mentioned but i'm just
saying generally computer technology and
certainly cheap cameras all this stuff
is mentioned it's not made in california
but it's not like the advantage oval
that's where the cameras are made oh you
can't get a camera anywhere else are you
kidding me there's a clustering effect
oh
well you know they have the right
casting agents they have the right
auditions they have the right lawyers to
have the right investment people you
know they have a group of skilled people
coming together in one place at one time
right and actually when you take it
apart piece by piece even when you look
at the sound stage even you look at the
actual
physical enclosed space to shoot the
filament there's nothing special there
there's nothing special at all right
so this is the horrifying terrifying
sense in which
the socialist dream of equality between
japan and india can never be realized
it's the same sense in which the film
industry can never be redistributed
from hollywood to topeka kansas
it can never be reallocated evenly
across the united states of america
right and the clusters where innovation
and design and these things happen where
the high profit
end of the spectrum happens
you want to talk about financial
investment and banking
where does that happen
can you redistribute that can you
redistribute wall street can you just
redistribute the district of london
that's referred to as the city can you
even redistribute the decision making
for the people who are making money on
the stock market out of china and india
and africa and so on the investors who
are bankrolling the gold mines and so on
you know the clusters
of skilled labor once you've established
that pattern once you've established
that competitive advantage in one place
even if like hollywood california
there's no advantage but the sunlight
all right
what is the advantage of wall street
nothing not what what do you think what
do you think the street itself somehow
you know it's it's sm bench and yet once
you've got that cluster there right it's
not because of karl marx's theory of
super profits right it's incredibly
difficult to redistribute that or change
the pattern and people will pay people
will put up with unbelievable
disadvantages think about how expensive
it is to live in manhattan island or to
commute to come into manhattan every
island every day just to deal with wall
street anyone could stand there and say
hey look this would be better if we
could do it in topeka kansas let's break
up wall street or relocate western right
there's a clustering effect that's the
jeep and then that advantage
i'm not going to say it lasts forever
it lasts until something unbelievably
cataclysmic happens something like world
war ii something like a communist
revolution you know so something
something just completely destroys the
fabric of the economy you've got and the
supply chains that link these things
that create these these clustering
effects yeah i just wanted to share one
example that i was reminded of what you
were talking about so
around the country in america there are
casinos
it's great great examples
yep
why is las vegas the center why did it
become this yeah there was one period
right it's a great example i didn't
think of that go on yeah
atlantic city
failed
okay so okay
so melissa this is actually examination
really i would not have thought of this
because
so melissa
points out that today in 2021 there were
casinos in every corner of the united
states of america so like on the east
coast you know every indian reservation
has a casino i remember that in the
desert too as you're driving there
casinos everywhere there's a casino in
detroit
there's a casino in windsor windsor
ontario like it's on both sides of the
border i don't know why you bother but
you know okay you know uh they're like
wherever you live the united states of
america it's a very short drive to get
to the nearest state we have a casino in
vancouver
i think it's despicable but we do
oh so now there are casinos everywhere
so today there is no special competitive
advantage held by las vegas nevada
except
that it still has this clustering effect
right it still has this knock-on effect
because they were the first place to do
it they were the early adopter they
created the pattern they created so
that's a great example now let's get a
little bit darker
there are beautiful women everywhere
there's prostitution
in las vegas nevada
they were the first to legalize
prostitution
there's no talent there that exists
that's missing elsewhere it's not like
there are more beautiful women in nevada
than in california or anywhere else
right oh
and and frankly today of course i think
if we're not being too naive you can
find prostitution everywhere
but las vegas is the world's premier
destination for prostitution right so
there's nothing special there's no
advantage they have in terms of gambling
you can play the same the same deck of
cards you can play the same game with
anywhere in the world there's no
advantage that they have in terms of
prostitution right and yet this is a
worldwide leading destination for this
and again it would be very hard
to redistribute that people have tried
a lot of money in it people are trying
to redistribute the gambling it's true
right to make it more evenly spread i'm
sure there are a lot of places in india
too that would like to
like to share in these vices and make
money end of them right but it's good
now a short of a civil war or you know a
revolution or some really calamitous
event completely destroying las vegas
even then probably if like if an
earthquake destroyed probably they'd
rebuild and everyone would still go you
know they wouldn't go oh yeah we're
going to show we still support las vegas
after the earthquake destroyed it
probably would keep he'll keep going on
yeah and actually i think actually a
really good comparison would be the
caribbean
i think there were a lot of islands in
the caribbean that would love to have
the gambling tourism and the
prostitution so you know just even
americans coming over but they're not
able okay now look beautiful women all
over the world
thailand
thailand's the world's destination for
prostitution they did it first
right they were the early adopters they
they created they led the way for the
20th century and 21st century culture of
global sex tourism of this kind of
this model of prostitution obviously
prosecution has always existed
everywhere
but in terms of being a destination for
organized international prostitution
right and again it'd be very hard for i
know look
you know i am going to assert that there
are beautiful women all over the world
but i just think it would be ridiculous
to pretend that this is because there is
any kind of scarce resource that exists
in thailand that that doesn't exist in
iran
lots of beautiful women in iran
but for some reason hey it's the same
climate in malaysia beautiful beaches in
malaysia for some reason it's not
malaysia and so on it's it's thailand so
yeah both gambling and prostitution
those are actually really you know
really uh telling examples however um
look so so what's the point okay so look
sorry they have done a bad job
explaining this particular aspect
um but look you know you have to add up
cluster by cluster all of the things
that japan was the first in and japan
was the best in and where they are still
the best in the world where they still
have that cluster there right
japan was the first country in asia to
make steel boats
not wooden boats
steel hold boats a lot of things are
connected to that right like including
the modern sheet metal industry itself
if you think about all the things you
need coal you need factories you need a
certain kind of social organization a
certain kind of economy you need a stock
market
like think about all the things that had
to be modernized for japan to have make
its own steel start making its own steel
steel-clad boats japan was the first
country in asia to manufacture its own
airplanes
forget that you know what i mean they
weren't they weren't the first country
in the world no
they didn't invent the airplane they
didn't invent the ironclad boat or the
steel clad boat you know no
but they were the first in a huge part
of the world and they became
you know the leaders of asia and all
those things and despite the absolutely
ruinous period of the japanese empire in
which they bankrupted themselves and
massacred others so the period of
japanese emma was bad for everyone
including the japanese it really was but
despite that that clustering effect is
so strong
it's so powerful that japan is still the
leader in innumerable industries
throughout asia you know i'll get cars
airplanes
boats you know what have you uh anyway
sorry as you go through well video games
who makes the best oh video games are a
great example of that clustering effect
so with video games it wasn't just one
cluster video game is an early computer
program technology i was talking to
melissa about this a couple weeks ago
but you know and i was explaining to her
actually england played a really unique
role in the history of computer
programming video games included but
video games computer technology and then
but you know this whole range of early
console technologies and a lot of it
happened in england you know what what
advantage does england have it's not
like a gold mine there isn't a microchip
mine where people go down and mine the
microchips so england had an advantage
no obviously it's cultural it's a
clustering effect it's educational it's
attitude there are all these things came
together where england really had
something important going at the dawn of
the computer now how big was england's
you know uh software or hardware sector
how big is it today compared to silicon
valley in california
compared to japan
of course it's small but there were a
few different clusters around the world
this way and everything i just said
about hollywood we can repeat about
silicon valley california everything i
said about wall street i can repeat
about silicon valley california i think
you would find i mean i'm sorry i'm just
going to be honest i don't know what the
name of the neighborhood is in tokyo but
i know if you look at the neighborhoods
in tokyo where they have the cluster of
software designers and so on
where they have the software and
hardware industries located the
advantage that japan has most obviously
emblematized by companies like sega
nintendo snk but you know uh so many so
many countries because so many part of
me so many innovative companies in the
history of uh computer technology
software and hardware you know japan
also had a tremendous question this way
okay
you want you want to take it away from
them
again it's not that you can't compete
it's not that you can't succeed but i
mean there is no filmmaker in india who
can be so successful that he's going to
cause the film industry to relocate from
hollywood to india
and even if you did even if that
happened it wouldn't redistribute evenly
around the world you're gonna have this
kind of cluster so
japan was the first
in so many things even though they were
devastated in world war ii and they were
part by the way they weren't just
devastated by losing world war ii they
were also devastated by their period of
winning it during the period where the
empire was expanding that was also
ruinous for them kind of a topic for
another day but winning winning can be
bad for you as well as losing just so
you guys know in war and empire and
politics um actually you could say this
about afghanistan the americans kept
winning and kept losing more money right
they won at 10 billion a year and then
they were losing at 100 billion dollars
a year it's you know interesting very
different example though as a general as
a general principle
um
but when you look at it and you add it
up sector by sector cluster by cluster
what is the reality today the reality is
that there are brilliant talented people
in india who learn how to become
computer programmers because they want
to get rich
and they apply for jobs
in silicon valley california and they
apply for jobs in japan and once in a
while they apply for jobs in england you
know it's a much smaller cluster that's
what they look up to that's what they
look forward to and even if they
personally are tremendously successful
they could be successful they go away to
work in japan for a few years and then
come back to india they may just stay in
india and make a tremendously successful
company within india this pattern is
going to continue to perpetuate itself
let's say so you're a software developer
in india and you say okay well my
company is really successful but you
know what my biggest problem is whenever
i get these talented young people and i
give them a job they work here for a
couple of years but the whole time
they're working for me they're applying
for jobs in silicon valley california
and they're applying for jobs in tokyo
japan and as soon as they get an offer
from one of them
they don't know if i can leave you two
things there you might be you say
i in india i can't offer to pay them
enough money to stay here instead of
going to california but you know what
you're also going to find in these
things you're going to find you're in a
situation it's like even if i can pay
them enough even if i can pay them more
they'll still leave me because they want
to be in silicon valley like if they're
earning the same amount of money or
slightly less they want to be where the
action is they want to be at that
cluster of creativity the same way that
you can't pay someone enough money to
stay in india if what they want is to be
in los angeles if what they want to be
as in california to be in the greatest
center of creativity at the leading edge
where the really important decisions are
made for the greatest creative cluster
in that industry in the history of the
world okay
so when you engage in not class analysis
of economics but cluster analysis
right you start to understand why it is
and how it is that there can be a gold
mine
in laos
laos is a poverty-stricken country in
southeast asia just north of cambodia
there can be a gold mine in laos
and yet mysteriously
most of the people who get rich from it
are australian
because it's an australian gold mining
company it's a stock traded on the
australian stock exchange right and you
go and visit the mine it seems like all
of the engineers all of the scientists
they aren't local ocean people the
security guard is lotion there are some
people doing
you know low level minimum wage jobs
there but
wow
isn't that funny the first world
countries whether it's japan or
australia or europe the rich keep
getting richer even when the gold being
mined is
lotion gold
in that this inequality created by the
clustering effect and you could say the
japanese economy because they have no
natural resources they have no natural
advantages it's the sum of so many
clusters of excellence of skilled people
of unique services that are in one place
and not another um that when you add
this up it's a create pardon me it's a
form of dynamic
self-perpetuating inequality that gets
worse and worse
frankly
forever
and one of the reasons why that happens
is that nobody neither left nor right
neither socialist nor capitalist neither
liberal nor conservative nobody has ever
been trying to solve it
[Music]